Kafika keeps track of what messages the consumer last successfully processed.
Internally each message in a Kafka topic and
partition has an offset number attached to it.
This number is simply an increasing counter that
identify sequentially which message this is.
So as we send message one and then we can see that we now have an offset of one.
As we send message two into our consumer,
we can see that the XYZ consumer offset is now set to two.
Finally, as we send the third message we can see that our consumer has now
consumed up to message three so the consumer offset is set to three.
Kafka stores the offset of the last message of the consumer read,
known as the consumer offset in an internal topic.
Those client libraries including the one we're teaching in
this course will automatically report their offset position to Kafka.
This means you don't have to do anything,
your library will do it for you.
This doesn't happen every single time message is consumed,
instead it is a periodic process.
You can change how frequently your client sends commits
back to the Kafka broker in your client settings.
Additionally, you can disable automatic reporting of
commits if you'd like but it's not recommended.
Offsets are critical for many applications.
If your application crashes and reboots
it knows where to start off the next time that connects to Kafka.
This is a useful feature that enables clients to feel
confident in building stage full applications around Kafka.
These offset commits can be made either synchronously or asynchronously.
By default, commits are made asynchronously
as your application continues to process data.
If your application is particularly sensitive to miss data,
it may be a good idea to consider using asynchronous commit.
In the vast majority of cases though
automatic asynchronous commits should be your default choice.
One thing I want you to be aware of,
the committed offset determines where your consumer will start up.
If you want your consumer to start at the first known message in a topic partition,
you should set the offset to the earliest value.
Most libraries will have a special valuetor represent earliest for offsets.
You'll see that in an upcoming demonstration.
If you want the consumer to start from the earliest known message in
a partition every time it starts up not just the first time it starts up,
you will need to manually assign your consumer to the
earliest known offset every single time it starts.
You'll also see this in an upcoming demonstration.